it's halfway warm out today on the
Saturday still we don't have any leaves
or any birds singing but I wanted to
start my moped and I noticed I have a
common problem which is the most number
one common problem with all mopeds that
have been sitting for a long time first
of all if you start your moped and you
know you got spark and everything else
and it doesn't work then we have chances
our gas or carburation problem if you're
going to start your bike or any vehicle
small vehicle first thing you want to
get is your keys and you want to get
some starting fluid starting fluid is
very high octane ether I think that's
what it's called
anyway we put this down by the throat of
the car okay
this bike hasn't been run for three
months what you want to do is your
battery is probably not up to snuff it
hasn't worked your engine will be cranky
sitting for all this time what you want
to do is to open your throttle full-bore
okay take your starting fluid right here
and you want to put a small spray into
the carb Inlet if you don't have the
carburation
dia throttle all the way open then it
won't go into the motor now that will
help the battery and it will help start
the bike if you have positive fuel flow
and there's no problems your bike should
start up get warm and everything
lubricated in a run fun if and here's
where it gets tricky now mine's doing
this if you've got funny gas which might
has I don't know if you can see it but
it's enough and remember with gas let me
tell you something about gas gas is like
beer an open beer
it only lasts for 30 days okay before it
goes stale another thing too is I'm
running summer gas gas formulas are
changed all the time to whatever reason
you live in it will change from fall to
spring to winter to summer the fuel
changes because that in whatever area
you're driving in so we got fuel the
fuel is turned on I have a little turn
on switch right here I've turned it off
because I've already tried to start it
you want to open your carb and put in
some starting fluid you want to kick
your bike over if the bike runs really
good for say 30 35 seconds and then it
goes blah stop and you try kicking it
over again and you know it's slightly
warm and it won't start it won't start
what that means is you've got gas going
to the carburetor but you don't have any
gas going from the fuel bowl right here
into the main mains yet or the idle jet
there is only two jets in these except
for some of my experimental ones which I
won't get into right now now we'll go to
the carburetor Center on my bench and
I'll show you what I mean this is a
common problem that if you go to any
bike shop they will charge you 150 bucks
that won't even throw in the Vaseline
and laughs laugh at you all the way to
the bank these are two racing carbs this
is a mikuni side draft that has never
been used side not a side draft D valve
a panel liver um I'm getting old anyway
this is a real can carburetor pkew co
built what I've done is I want to show
you the Jets on that next with you